Hello, this is a project about memories and the people who used to live in Tiger Bay,
Butown, Cardiff Docks.
And first of all let me say thank you on behalf of us at HDA for Heritage Lottery for providing
us with some funding for this short project.
This next conversation is with June Wagstaff and this is part one of three relatively short
clips 15 minutes odd with June.
And let me apologize for the quality of the recording.
Unfortunately because of Covid we had to do these conversations via mobile phone and
every now and then the quality is a bit of a problem and that was the case with this
interview.
But I hope you can still hear her and I hope you still spend the time listening.
She is an interesting character, a good person and part of what was the heart of the now
destroyed Tiger Bay.
So, right, so you're born and brought up in Nelson Street, yes.
Where were they from?
From the docks.
And their parents?
My grandparents have been, my father's father was from Egypt and my mother's father was
from Dominica.
So I got caught in the approach.
That perfectly sums up the bay doesn't it?
You know one from Africa, one from the Caribbean, no chance they'd meet except in the bay.
That's right.
Yeah but I don't know if you could understand it.
Everybody comes from now.
Nobody settled up to value, said Gary was black or she was white or anything like that
you know.
We were all so close.
I suppose you've spoken to Gary and everybody have you?
Everybody, you know Karen Ali and others.
But I mean what gets me, let me say my granddad arrived early 1900s from Barbados settled
in Bari.
I get entirely what you're saying but do you think everybody got on, because everybody,
even the white working class people, a lot of them were kind of from somewhere else,
do you know what I mean?
From the valleys, from wherever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well I can tell you my father's mother was from Dorset but my mother's mother was from
Grange Town.
She had quite a few families there you know and we were just a lovely family.
I never wanted to be anywhere else, I wasn't anybody else.
My parents were workers so we never went anywhere else.
People said they went without.
Not a lot of people went without since I could be, because everybody helped one another.
And you could always, if you were playing with one of the kids, one of the three diamond
arrows, you could have team one.
And like those, they could have team nine.
I always say I think the women used to cook for the street.
Oh yeah, yeah.
My grandmother used to, honestly, it would be either pancakes she'd be making,
you call them Ralph's Cheesecakes, we used to call them Baked Storms,
and she'd stand her always then doing a big plateful.
And Victor Park had always used to watch him on a chat,
and my grandmother would be there, we were there when he'd be doing the bloody Baked Storms.
That's the guitarist, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, a bit of a legend, isn't he really?
Lovely, that's that. Lovely man.
My grandmother used to listen to it, but I don't mind you, I love you,
but grandma's all my kids too.
There were some characters down there that got off on now.
That's just so excessive about it.
Yeah.
I mean, all the characters are gone.
You know, a lot of the people live where they were born,
I don't know anybody wanted to leave.
I mean, I've lived so many times.
I've got three parents in the back,
one of them is a woman, I have good father's children,
I have the coachman, I have the wife, I have the judge.
I've run up the valley for a few years and I've got that up there,
but I still love the dogs.
You had quality pubs though, didn't you? Legend pubs.
Well, they've been there too, I never used to close.
Where's the cop closing?
I never used to close, and if I'd build up
and his daughter was going out in the night after closing,
they'd say, where are you going?
I say nowhere, well, we're all dressed up.
Well, I say it's nice to dress up, not when I can.
I don't like to think I was going somewhere else.
But you set the tone.
You set the tone, you dressed up, you looked after yourself
and it said to all the customers,
there you go, me and you.
Yeah, they gave a word to me, you know, at one time, in the pub.
Yay, it was lovely.
Did you have a lot of music played in your pub?
Oh, all live music, live music.
I used to have a friend who used to have the Welsh Jazz Orchestra play.
I used to play for free, but it was special every day
that I was out of steam.
It used to be compact and they had plenty of musicians
coming from all over the place.
Oh yeah, we had all kinds of music.
Yeah, I love music.
But I think musicians attract musicians.
No one watches musicians better than other musicians.
Musicians, that's right, yeah.
I'm trying to be working in the museum
in the functionary or something, in my room this week.
They come down, they do all the moon-making,
they're all on the clinic,
they've got the only time I could be there, you know?
And play what they wanted to play.
Yeah, and I'm a bit of a singer myself, aren't we?
Are there?
I'm a singer, yeah.
Yeah, I love your favourite music.
I mean, I've seen Clank's Immaculate, High Time,
the Sixth Sense, you know, and I've done all of his songs.
Shadowborn is my uncle.
I've seen lots and lots.
My musicals, of course, they're not as distilling
as anybody did then, but my lots are all gone, aren't they?
Yeah.
I'm trying to get this black business.
Why do they leave people alone?
I love my background, I love my race,
I love all the people I've got.
Let me take you back a bit. What about school?
School?
Yeah, where'd you go?
Yeah, I went to Samaris of Virgin first,
and then they moved us up to Samaris New Terris.
Well, my cousin and I were always together,
but my cousin was darker than me because her father was...
..he was from Barbados, I think.
He died at three, got killed at three,
was a lovely, maroon-haired family.
But my auntie Ella lived to over 100.
So she was like, in Samaris, for a shop and that,
that was her family, but my grandmother was an auntie.
Because my grandmother, well, the sister brought them up
because their mother died young.
You know, and you might think it sounds funny,
but that's how close people are in those days.
No, no, I get it entirely.
My gran was the same.
You know, if anyone...
And there's this thing about cousins
and whether cousins are family...
Oh, I have loads of cousins!
Yeah, you know, it's the people your mum knew,
your gran knew, they became...
Yeah, and everybody was wonderful and auntie.
Yeah, and everybody...
If one of them, something happened to their parents
or whatever, they'd end up in your house
for a couple of years.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
We are the one who needs to call Auntie Peggy.
She worked with my auntie, my mother's sister,
and a cousin who's gone married
and had a couple of kids, she was under,
and they were running a farm that I was supposed to leave.
So she came to my auntie's house at home.
And my granny and grandfather accepted her
like as if she was their own.
I mean, she was with us, well, she's dead now,
but she was with us all of her life.
Yeah.
All of her life.
And she was like a big sister to me with my auntie,
was like a big sister as well, my mother's sister.
And they were there because they always went to work.
You know, I'd never known about them.
The social security, I argue.
Because we always worked.
I'd never been on social security
and I've never touched with my auntie.
It's a funny thing, isn't it?
You weren't on the sick
and it wasn't anything to do with a boss or whatever.
It was to do with your own self-respect.
Oh, yes, yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
And my little brother, Dick McCoy,
he was a rugby referee.
And his friend, he played in the band
and he was playing as well, and my uncle Jimmy did.
So they would solve the music for the family.
You know, like my grandson,
my eldest son, so he was playing today as well.
He was a rugby.
He was a winner, isn't it?
His name was Lewis the Summit.
Oh, I knew it.
Thank you so much, June.
I've had this argument the other day.
Despite the accent, I'm born in London,
but all my family are from Barry, yeah?
And that's what he spent all his growing up.
I had an argument the other day with someone from England
who said, oh, Riz, he'll be from some middle-class family.
Somewhere, I said, he's a baby boy.
He's got to be a baby boy.
And he said, no, no, no.
He's not a baby boy.
No, but I know what I mean.
You have family stuff, family stuff.
Yes.
My son always went,
and he married a girl from Cathedral Road.
And then when another and father were about to retire,
my son took over the hotel,
and he actually bought it off him.
So he didn't get married to me this time.
I think I met Joseph that night.
And then we were in the hotel
and we were buying and selling a few cars.
And we had a good education event at the Cathedral School.
And also, we had a couple of boys that had a hand,
but they were big.
But Lewis was a child in the sport.
Yeah.
So that's where Lewis's family came from.
He's my grandson.
The boy's going to be a legend.
There's no two ways about it.
But we've generated enough rugby legends,
particularly from the Bay.
Isn't he just another one of those boys
whose blood comes from the Bay
who's shown it?
I mean, all of the rugby.
Now, at least he's playing rugby union for Wales.
You remember all the boys who had to go north
to the rugby league.
Of course I do.
Billy Belfast, Bimmin, Johnny Freeman.
Colin Dixon.
The males would never have been able to tell it.
Nah.
You know?
And they were working.
Because they said Lewis was incredible.
And they were working men who had to make a living.
Of course.
I mean, today there is a sport
and they get fantastic money.
But I don't know what the rugby players get.
I don't ask, but I know footballers do.
Well, you know, years ago they had jobs.
And they played on a Saturday.
You know, no sport can add jobs.
Yeah.
I mean, people don't appreciate just how much
the Bay has contributed to sport.
What with...
Oh, it was a lovely, lovely place to live.
...the foxes that come from the Bay, the Erskine...
Well, Joey Erskine is like a cousin to me.
Yeah.
And my grandfather lived with his nana.
We would always...
My uncle Tate, the rugby referee,
was his father's best friend.
We would go out together.
And my mother and Johnny Aish,
my neighbour Kate, they were like brothers and sisters.
My nana took care of all.
She took my mother.
So it's...
We were all mixed down there.
It was lovely.
I'm so glad I just got down there.
I'm so happy.
One of the things people talk about from school days
was wits and treats.
Did you go on any of them?
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
And when the school stopped doing it,
the kayak trucks started doing it.
But it was always on August Bank all the time.
One wits and then it was August.
The church used to put on some lorries.
You couldn't do it today.
But you'd always put on the inspection of the lorries.
You know, they weren't allowed to do it.
Yeah, but for a kid, wow.
It's exciting.
It was fabulous.
It was fabulous. It was.
It was like a family home again.
Don't worry, I can cut it out.
Don't worry about it.
But that thing about, for a kid from the bay,
being able to go somewhere to see a bit more green
was special.
Although, of course, a lot of people will remember
the park in the middle of Loudoun Square.
Oh, yeah.
That's the town of Loudoun Square.
Yeah, and it was lovely, the park.
It made us feel happy, but very small.
But that's what we had in the paddling core.
You'd catch your feet every time you went in there.
At least you had it, you know.
I mean, a lot of the bigger boys used to swim in the canal
in the timber float.
Lots of kids got downed there in the summer
when we were supposed to.
But for future, I think a town would be nice.
Canal.